---
layout: post
title: How to quickly learn programming - 2. median scale map, programming as a backbone of machine logic
category: Blogs
tags: Programming
keywords: Programming, OpenCV, Blender, hobby
description: It is never difficult to learn the syntax of a programming language. The real challenge is how to deal with the overwelmed information and find a good place to start. In this series of posts I'm trying to scetch an overview of programming; it consists 3 maps from the top level to the bottom level. Then for those who want to start to learn programming from scratch, it will become easier to know where to start and dive deeper. This series of posts is intended for people having at least a bachelor's or a master's degree so that there is some knowledge system established. It will be useful in learning programming.
---

It is never difficult to learn the syntax of a programming language. The real challenge is how to deal with the overwelmed information and find a good place to start. In this series of posts I'm trying to scetch an overview of programming; it consists 3 maps from the top level to the bottom level. Then for those who want to start to learn programming from scratch, it will become easier to know where to start and dive deeper. This series of posts is intended for people having at least a bachelor's or a master's degree so that there is some knowledge system established. It will be useful in learning programming.

### 2 - Median scale map, programming as a backbone of machine logic
In this map I'm trying to explain how machines work in an easy-to-understand way.  Assuming that you are already very good with selecting the search terms, you still will get lost when you try to find an answer to your problem with google. Before you go to google, you first need to know what is the right question. Then there comes the median scale map - programming as a backbone of machine logic.

There are different levels of machine logic. The lower levels are closer to physical machine and they require more intervention from programming. They are punctual but less smart. The higher levels are closer to biological life. They are smart but less punctural. The low level examples are assembly language, C and C++. The high level examples are Python, JavaScript and R. Low level programming languages deal more with the memory and the performance. High level programming languages deal more with the coding efficiency. In other words, the low level languages try to save machine time and the high level languages try to save programmers' time.

Going up the higher levels, where functions become more sophisticated, there are also different aspects of machine logic. To name some domains that I know of, scientific programming, graphic user interface programming, database administration, etc. When dealing with a domain, it is important to distinguish whether a problem is within the programming language or is related to the domain. For example in scientific programming, when the result is not good, it can be a mistake in the programming codes or a wrong calculation in the mathematical formula. If it is actually a domain problem, like the mathematical formula problem, but you try to find answer regarding the programming language, then you are heading the wrong direction to solving your problem.

There is no single solution to have the level knowledge and the domain knowledge before hand and this is what made programming feel hard. The advice is to choose something popular to start with. In any case Google is heavily needed to search for examples and answers. To start with something popular means that there will be enough material even if the search terms are not correct. Since other people have the same misjudgement too and then the search engines are smart enough to correct it. For example if you are already familiar with 3D modeling then it is good idea to find a software with open API, like Blender. Blender is a popular 3D modeling tool and has Python binding. You can still do 3D modeling yet using Python instead of keyboard and mouse.
