---
layout: post
title: How to quickly learn programming - 1. big scale map, comparing programming to other fields of engineering
category: Blogs
tags: Programming
keywords: Programming, Engineering, hobby
description: It is never difficult to learn the syntax of a programming language. The real challenge is how to deal with the overwelmed information and find a good place to start. In this series of posts I'm trying to scetch an overview of programming; it consists 3 maps from the top level to the bottom level. Then for those who want to start to learn programming from scratch, it will become easier to know where to start and dive deeper. This series of posts is intended for people having at least a bachelor's or a master's degree so that there is some knowledge system established. It will be useful in learning programming.
---

It is never difficult to learn the syntax of a programming language. The real challenge is how to deal with the overwelmed information and find a good place to start. In this series of posts I'm trying to scetch an overview of programming; it consists 3 maps from the top level to the bottom level. Then for those who want to start to learn programming from scratch, it will become easier to know where to start and dive deeper. This series of posts is intended for people having at least a bachelor's or a master's degree so that there is some knowledge system established. It will be useful in learning programming.

### 1 - Big scale map, comparing programming to other fields of engineering
Programming is similar to any other fields of engineering, such as aerospace engineering, mechanical engineering and chemical engineering. At schools they all appear as structured knwoledge, such as a specific programming language or a standardized design formular; at this phase the problem is simple and following the structured knowledge can solve the problem. After school, as the problem complexity rises, till where there is hardly any ideal structured solution anymore, human intuition becomes more important; a small number of people will be able to solve the problem via an intuitive and non-structured way. Later on the intuitive experience will coalesce into structured knowledge.

What makes programming different than other fields of engineering is that programming needs little resource. It is not necessary to have an expensive lab to start programming, whereas other engineerings do. A computer is enough to start programming. In this way programming is able to develop much faster than other engineering fields, both in technology improvement and in management innovation. Recently in technology improvement there is Apache Hadoop ecosystem, React framework, microservices, Julia, etc. The management innovation in the programming field also develops fast because it is a collaboration-intensive field. Everyone can do a lot and communication becomes important to make sure the team has a consistent direction and the effort is not wasted. Therefore some structured ways of collabotion emerged in programming too, like Agile and Scrum. These two methodologies are now spreading into other fields of engineering.

The fact that it is easy to get resource with programming is has made learning difficult. Since too many people start learning programming and producing content, such as video tutorials, articles and open source tools, it has become extremely difficult to have an elegant learning journey. Whatever you google, you are overwelmed with non-relevant information and that brings the difficult feeling of learning programming. So it is important to have the big view and be able to filter out the necessary information to progress the learning. That is how this map is intended to be used.

The key to quickly learn programming is to relate programming to your other knowledge. The more relations you are able to establish, the faster you can learn. It is definitely not necessary for everyone to follow the syllubus of Computer Science Bachelor. Again, programming is such a collaboration-intensive field so it actually is a miniaturization of how people work. Many logics used in programming are already used in other fields. For people without programming education background, taking a top-down approach would be easier than the bottom-up approach in the collegue. That is why I want to sketch the map.
